# Install Open Libra CLI pre-built binary

Although it is recommended that users build the the libra CLI tool from source themselves 
[(see this page for details)](./install-open-libra-cli.md),
a selection of pre-built binaries are generated by the project's GitHub repository's CI workflows.
These binaries cover the following
platforms: macos, Linux, Windows and the following CPU architectures: x64 (Intel/AMD) and arm64.

**Warning**:
Exercise caution when downlading executable binary files. If you are not
familiar with computer security do not do this without seeking advice from someone who is.

## Installation
Visit the
[releases page](https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra-framework/releases) and identify the
appropriate binary file for your computer. Download the file then follow platform-specific instructions
and notes below:

### macos

Note that to use macos pre-built binaries currently, the computer must already have the 
[homebrew package manager](https://brew.sh/) installed. \
This is required in order to install a necessary dependency (openssl).

The downloaded file is a "bare binary executable" (rather than an installable package) and as such requires
additional steps to be usable:

1. Copy the downloladed file to a suitable directory on the shell's path, e.g. `~/bin`, while also change the filename to `libra`:
    ```
    % cp ~/Downloads/libra-macos-arm64 ~/bin/libra
    ```
1. Downloaded files are quarantined, meaning macos will not allow such a file to be run. This is done
to protect the user from inadvertently downloading and running malicious software. The quarantine status
can be removed with a command like this:
    ```
    % xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine ~/bin/libra
    ```
1. `libra` requires that the brew package "openssl" is installed. This can be done using homebrew:
    ```
    % brew install openssl
    ```
1. Check that `libra` runs (this should print CLI tool version information without errors):
   ```
   % libra version
   ```

### Windows

Note that at present there is no arm64 version of the Windows binary file. However Windows arm64 machines will run
the x64 version.

The binary files are native Windows executables. Note however that WSL2 users may install and use the relevant Linux
binary for use within the WSL2 environment (see Linux instructions below).

1. Copy the downloladed file to a suitable directory on the shell's path, e.g. `%HOMEPATH%\bin`, while also change the filename to `libra.exe`:
    ```
    C:\Users\anon>copy "Downloads\libra-windows-x64.exe" %HOMEPATH%\bin\libra.exe
        1 file(s) copied.
    ```
1. Check that `libra` runs (this should print CLI tool version information without errors):
   ```
   C:\Users\anon> libra version
   ```

### Linux

Note that currently binary files are built on Ubuntu 24.04. This means they are not compatible with older Ubuntu releases such as 22.04.

1. Copy the downloladed file to a suitable directory on the shell's path, e.g. `~/bin`, while also change the filename to `libra`:
    ```
    $ cp ~/Downloads/libra-linux-x64 ~/bin/libra
    ```
1. Mark the file executable:
    ```
    $ chmod +x ~/bin/libra
    ```
1. `libra` requires that the brew package "openssl" is installed. This can be done using apt:
    ```
    $ sudo apt install openssl
    ```
1. Check that `libra` runs (this should print CLI tool version information without errors):
   ```
   $ libra version
   ```

